# 92 Scope and the scope Chain



Lexical scoping means that the way variables are organized and accessed is entirely controlled by the placement of functions and of blocks in the programs code. For example, a function that is written inside another function has access to the variables of the parent function. Variable scoping is influenced by where exactly we write our functions and code blocks. Scope is the space or environment in which a certain variable is declared. In the case of functions, that's essentially the variable environment which is stored in the functions execution context. What's the differences between scope and variable environment? The answer is that for the case of functions, it's basically the same. Now in JavaScript, we have the global scope, function scope and block scope.

First, lets define what the scope of a variable is. So the scope of a variable is basically the entire region of our code where a certain variable can be accessed. If you take a close look at it, scope is not the same as scope of a variable.

Let's now talk about the three different types of scope in JavaScript. So that's global scope, function scope and block scope. Remember scope is the place in our code where variables are declared. First, the global scope is once more for top level code. So this is for variables that are declared outside of any function or block. These variables will be accessible everywhere in our program, in all functions and blocks. Next, each and every function creates a scope. The variables declared inside that function scope are only accessible inside that function. This is also called a local scope opposed to the global scope. So local variables live in the function so to say. Outside the function the variables are then not accessible at all. This is technically the same as the functions variable environment, but we still need to give it the name of scope in this context, because blocks also create scopes. It actually does not matter what kind of function we're using. So function declarations, function expressions and arrow functions all create their own scope. Now traditionally, only functions used to create scopes in JavaScript. But starting in ES6, blocks also creates scopes now. In blocks, we mean everything that is between curly braces, such as the block of an "if" statement or a "for" loop. Just like with functions, variables declared inside a block are only accessible inside that block and not outside of it. Now the big difference is that block scopes only apply to variables declared with "let" or "const". Only "let" and "const" variables are restricted to the block in which they were created. That's why we say that "let" and "const" variables are block scoped. So if I declared a variable using "var" in this block, then that variable would actually still be accessible outside the block, and would be scoped to the current function or to the global scope. So we say that "var" is function scoped. In ES5 and before we only had global scope and function scope. That's why ES5 variables declared with "var" only care about functions but not about blocks. They simply ignore them. Finally also starting in ES6, all functions are now also block scoped at least in strict mode. Just like with "let" and "const" variables, this means that function declared inside a block are only accessible inside that block. "Let" and "const" variables as well as functions are blocked scoped.