### 65 Passing Functions as Argument
....Functions are also objects. That being said, it makes sense that with functions we can do the same things that we can do with objects. So let's see some facts of functions.<br>
first as we already know, a function is an instance of the object type, and because of that, a function behaves like any other object. We can store functions in a variable, and we already know that. And we can pass a function as an argument to another function. We can also return a function from a function. Because of all that, we say that in Javascript we have first class functions. <br>
... We set up some event listeners back then. We passed a function into each one of them in order to handle each event. Back then we already used first-class functions, but we didn't just know it. So let's imagine that we have a couple of arrays filled with values and that we wanted to do some calculations with them, and a birth year array could be a good example of this. <br>
Let's write an array with some years in it. Now we could do a huge function which does all of these calculations that we want to perform at the same time, and then resolves all the result arrays at the same time, but that would not be really a good practice because instead we can write a function that will receive an array and return a new result array, and do the calculations based on a function that we pass into the calculation function. So let's write the calculation function and call "arraycal".  <br>
So function,"arrayCal", and what we're gonna pass in here is the array,which will be, for example in here the years array, and then we pass a function which does the actual calculations. This function is used to receive an array and return a new array, and do the calculations based on a function that we pass into the calculation function. So let's see what this function does.<br>
In here, we will simply loop over the array, and return a result. The first thing is to create a new, empty array which will be the one that we're gonna fill and then return. So var arr for the result, so I'm just going to say arrRes here, and it's an empty array. We set up a new variable i, which is our counter, set it to 0 and then loop as long as "i" is smaller than the length of the array that we input. Then after each loop, we increment our counter by 1. Ok, down here, inside of the loop, we will then use the function that we can pass into the function. We will push something into our result array here. We use the push function, or push method, which inserts an element at the end of an array. So the big question here is "What are we actually going to push into the array?" The answer is that it will be the result of calling a "fn" function. So "fn" and then we pass the current element of our input array into this function, array i. This will make a lot more sense after you see one of the functions that we're going to program next. Now all we have to do is to actually return this result array. So return "arrRes". Let's now quickly write one of the functions that we can then later use here s our fn function. We will write a couple of simple functions that do only one single task, and these functions will actually be called "callback" functions, because they are functions that we pass into functions that will then call them later. In this case, our callback function "fn", will be called here when we want to push a new element into our array. Let's now write one of these functions, and it will be our well-known calculate age function. Let's do it like this, function "calculateAge". At this time I'm simply gonna call it "el" which stands for element, and we're gonna return "2016-'el'". This was usually called our year of birth parameter,but this time we're simply gonna call it "el". This is one o these simple functions. It onlly has one task. It receives this "el" argument, and then return the age based on that argument. Now our arrayCalc function can make a lot more sense. Let's see what happens here. Again, we have our empty array here, and then we start looping through the array that we input, which is, for example, this array here with all of these birth years. When we're done, hit this line in code here, what's going to happen is that our callback function "fn", will be called with the i element of the input array. Imagine in the first loop i is zero. So with this array[i], we're going to retrieve the first vallue of the years array, so 1990, and then we'll push this 1990 into the fn function which will be calculateAge. Then this function does it's work and it returns 2016 - 1190 in this case, and then the result will simply get pushed into the array, and after this is completed five times, then the result will be returned. Let's do some practice and actually call the "arraycalc" function.<br>
... Again, I'm not going to call the function right here because this way I would need the parentheses like this, but that's not what we want. We don't want to call a function here, we want it to be called later by the arrayCalc function. That's why it's called a callback function because it's called later. we simply pass this variable which is this function right into this ogher function. Now we just have to store this into a variable because the other way we cannot really see it. I'm gonna call it "ages" then we just need to put the correct name here, and then let's console.log this array. No we have our ages, so this actually worked. Our arrayCalc function looped through the years array five times, and five times the calculateAge function here was called and then pushed the result right into the array that we then returned. So again, we can imagine this function as a generic machine that lops through an array and we can tell that machine what to do with each element in the array. That's what we do with our fn parameter which is to callback. <br>
Let's now write another callback function, so that you can really see how powerful this pattern can be. Now write a function which can determine if someone is of full age. Function isfullage, we're going to receive an element simply here. This time we're simply going to return 