# 46 Iteration: The For Loop

...We can now create a loop, and then put one of these lines of code in there, and the loop will then run that code over and over again until we tell it to stop. So let's implement a so called "for loop" now.<br>

A loop, which has a counter. We simply write for and open parenthesis. So a little bit like the "if" statement and this is a "for" statement. It looks similar. Now the loop statements has three parts. The first part is the initial value of counter. In the case of this current example, the counter is the value that will start here at number 1, and go all the way to number 10. So let's call this counter "rep" which stands for repetition. And so here we literally create a variable called rep. We started at 1, because that's our first repetition. Here we need to use a "let" variable because this counter will later be updated by the for loop. That's the first part of the "for" statement, then we use the semicolon and go to the second part. The second part is a logical condition that is evaluated before each iteration of the loop. So before each time, that the code in the loop is executed. Let me write here first, and then this will make more sense. So our condition will be rep needs to stay below or equal 10. So again, this condition that we just described here will be evaluated before each iteration of the loop. If the condition is true, then the next loop iteration will run. But as soon as this condition is false, then the loop stops. So no more code will then be executed. Basically the loop will keep running while this condition stays true.<br>

"For loop" keeps running while condition is true.<br>

So, speaking of increasing the counter,that is actually the third part of the "for" statement. So, another semicolon here. Now here we actually update the counter after each iteration. What wo do here is to now increase the counter by one after each iteration. So we can say "rep = rep+1" so this will take the rep value and increase it by one.