# DOM

What's DOM actually? Well, DOM stands for Document Model, and it is basically a structured representation of HTML documents. The DOM allows us to use JavaScript to access HTML elements and styles in order to manipulate them. For example, we'll be able to change text, to change HTML attributes and also to change CSS styles from our JavaScript. So we can say that DOM is basically a connection point between HTML documents and JavaScript code. Now the DOM is automatically created by the browser as soon as the HTML page loads. And it's stored in a tree structure like this one. In this tree, each HTML element is one object. And so let's now take a look at this DOM structure in a little bit more detail. To illustrate this here is a very simple HTML document and here is what a DOM tree corresponding to this HTML looks like.

As you can see for each element in the HTML, there is one element node and the DOM tree, and we can access and interact with each of these nodes using JavaScript. So the DOM always starts with the document object right at the very top. And document is a special object that we have access to in JavaScript. This object serves as an entry point into the DOM. Remember how you used "document.querySelector" to select an element. So that means that the query selector method is available on the document object. So that's why we say that document is the entry point to the DOM, because we need it to start selecting elements. Then the first child element of document is usually the HTML element, because that's usually the root element in all HTML documents. Next, HTML usually has two child elements, head and body. In the HTML they are adjacent elements, and so they are sibling in our DOM as well. Then, as we keep going deeper into the nested HTML structure, we keep adding more and more children to the DOM tree. So inside head and body, you have more child elements, and the two sections and the body even have child elements themselves. From there, it goes even deeper because the first paragraph also has a child which is this link element here. But a DOM tree actually has more than just element nodes. It also has nodes for all the text itself, comments and other stuff, because basically the rule is that whatever is in the HTML document also has to be in the DOM. DOM really is a complete representation of the HTML document so that we can manipulate it in complex ways.

Many people believes the DOM and all the methods and properties that we can use too manipulate the DOM, such as documented or the query selector and lots of other stuff are actually part of JavaScript. However this is not the case. Remember that JavaScript is actually just a dialect of the ECMAScript specification, and all this DOM related stuff is simply not in there. So up until this point, we have only used the JavaScript language itself.

Now you may ask " If the DOM is not a part of the JavaScript language, then how does this all work?" Well, the DOM and DOM methods are actually part of something called the web APIs. So the web APIs are like libraries that browsers implement and that we can access from our JavaScript code. API stands for Application Programming Interface but more about that later. There is actually an official DOM specification that browsers implement, which is the reason why DOM manipulation works the same in all browsers. Now besides the DOM, there are actually a ton more web APIs, such as timers, the fetch API and many more.

